>> Melkey: We have a few of these trucks
now we have person, contact, employee.
We're gonna shift our focus on the person
struct, because something I wanted to
address is this topic of passing values by
reference or copies of each other, right?
So let's say we have this function
called func modifyPersonName, okay?
And let's say this function is
going to accept a person type, so
again we can just do person and
actually type in our person type here.
Because now person if we look at
a definition, it's a type, it's a shrug,
it's fully something that we can use and
define, right?
This function's not going to return
anything because we're gonna try and
modify a value.
So here, what I'm going to write,
let me just make some more room here.
Let's do fmt.Println "name before: " and
we can access the property of our struct.
We can do person.Name, like so, all right?
Here I'm gonna do modifyPersonName,
I'm gonna pass my person that we declared.
And over here, what I'm gonna do is
person.Name, we'll set this to Melkey.
All right, we can put fmt.Println,
inside scope, new name.
You've got person.Name,
just to demonstrate that we did,
in fact,
modify something in our code here and
then above after we call
the function in our parent function,
the main function,
we say name after, okay?
So if I run this, you can see
name before is John inside scope,
new name is Melkey,
name after is John, okay?
Because what's happening here
is the person that we've
passed in our modifyPersonName
function is a copy of
the actual person that we declare
all the way up here, okay?
So when we change the property
name of the copied person,
this only exists in
the scope of our function.
Once the function is executed, this
variable, this person copy is deleted,
it is no longer there and
that memory is then reallocated,
or it's freed up, if you want to
pass a value by reference, right?
So if you actually want
to call the address and
modify the address of a variable,
what we can do is change
the type of modifyPersonName
to accept a pointer to person.
This is the Syntax for pointers,
it is this asterisk here, and
this basically says this
function accepts person, but
the type is a pointer to person, okay?
And then we can see here we cannot use
variable of type person as pointer,
person, because we need to pass in
the address of our person variable.
And to do this,
I believe this is the ampersand symbol,
if I'm not mistaken, and this directly
is the address of our person, okay?
So now, because person here
is a pointer to this person
variable that we've created.
Once we modify person.Name,
we can simply go back, right?
If I save this now, from this now, the
value persists, because we are no longer
creating a copy of person that lives
within the scope of the function, okay?
And a quick,
pretty simple example, I guess,
to demonstrate this pointer concept,
I'll make it brief,
we could do x as like 20, right?
We're gonna use infer type,
we know x is 20, then we could do pointer,
and we can do the address of x, okay?
Now we have these two variables,
we have x and we have a pointer 2x.
If we do a fmt.Printf, we can say
value of x is the only modulo d, okay?
And address of x is gonna be modulo p,
let's break the line and
then pass in x and
then pass in the pointer, all right?
And if I save this and
I run it, you can see here,
value of x is 20, and the address,
it's this address here.
If we want to then modify this value,
we can de reference
the value from our pointer
using the following notation.
We can use asterisk, pointer, ptr, so
the name of the pointer right here
that points to the address of
where x was declared, and
we can reset this to 30, okay?
So here,
if I just copy this print statement, okay?
We have two, I'll do value of x and
value of new x, and
if I save this,
you can see now we have modified
the underlying value of where
a pointer is pointing to.
It's kinda a tough sentence, but yeah,
we have the ability to create a variable.
We have the ability to create a pointer
to the exact address of set variable, and
then we have the ability to dereference,
to extract the value associated with that
memory address and a modify, like so.
>> Speaker 2: Does it go let you change
pointers like where they're pointing to,
could you seg fault and go,
or is that not possible?
>> Melkey: No, it can't change
the underlying address of a pointer,
now before we wrap up, there's one
more thing I want to, showcase.
So I'm gonna focus on this function here,
this function, if you remember earlier
when we had the question about structs and
passing structs.
If we look at this function,
we are passing person, struct for
this function, which, okay,
not the end of the world.
But structs give us a very cool ability,
which is to create methods on them,
method receivers or
methods on the actual structure itself.
Now, just as a quick refresher,
we have this person struct that's defined.
We're good, we know what that is,
we can add fields if you want, and
can access them, we should be familiar.
Here now, what I'm going to do is here,
right after the func keyword,
I'm gonna do parentheses,
and I'm gonna put person *Person, okay?
And I'm gonna change this like so,
now, what have I done?
I have specifically said
modifyPersonName is
now a method on my person struct type,
okay?
So you can see on line 11 or
relative 11, I get this error,
undefined name or undefined,
modifyPersonName.
This function no longer exists because
in the global scope of our app,
modifyPersonName no longer exists,
modifyPersonName,
the function only exists
on our person struct.
So what you can do is modify this,
let's remove the argument,
and here we have person,
we can do person.modifyPersonName,
do we see that?
So instead of calling
this function free-range,
it's now a method on our person struct.
So every new variable we create,
new object that we create that is a person
struct will have access to
the modifyPersonName function to it, okay?
And some syntax,
some just sugar here, typically you
wouldn't see person, person,
you do something like p,
so now you have p.Name and
like p.Name here.
Instead of doing the full person and then
person type, you do something like P or A,
it's like a letter.
And this component here,
this like bracket component is
called a method receiver, okay?
This means, we have a method
called the function name, and
this is only existing on the data type,
which is person.
And we can, be a little bit more,
I don't know, and
just change this like this, right?
>> Melkey: Just to be a little bit
more pragmatic, I suppose, and
then all the things
should work as intended.
>> Speaker 3: How carefully should
I consider when to pass by copy or
a reference?
>> Melkey: Yeah, great question, so
how carefully should you consider it?
I mean, you obviously don't want
to re look at your entire code and
re architecture anything.
I'd say a rule of thumb is, if you're
passing structs along your application
through multiple different functions,
multiple different fields over and
over again,
that would be like a bit of a smell.
I'd probably start reconsidering
maybe these should be methods
on the struct instead.
Maybe I should be doing a pointer
reference to the struct as opposed to
just handling it as a copy.
And like one gotcha that I tried to
explain earlier is the scope of function,
like the closures of a function, right?
If you are intending to modify a value
outside, like if you make a helper
function and that function has
a specific role of modifying a value.
And you call that function,
you pass it a copy,
then the value isn't gonna persist, right?
Nothing's gonna really happen,
that's when you would use a pointer.
If you want to persist changes,
that would be a use case of why
you would use references over
passing values as copies.
Yeah, and just one little thing here, this
is intended, you cannot have two methods,
obvious, but you can have two of
the same methods on the same struct.
>> Speaker 2: Even if they have
a different signature, like if you had
a different type or a different number
of types, would that be allowed?
>> Melkey: As arguments or
as the method receiver?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe I misunderstand,
you have name string there.
>> Melkey: Yeah,
let's just do something like that, right?
>> Speaker 3: Like overloads and-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
overloading as opposed to overriding.
>> Melkey: Hold on, it's too strange,
even if you change like the type,
let me just be a little
more specific here.
You need to change the method signature,
it still would error out cuz it still
looks at the actual name implementation.
You can't share it,
if you change this to person 2, and
you have this method receivers,
person 2, that's gonna be fine.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Does the capitalization
rule apply to the fields as well.
>> Melkey: Yeah, yes it does,
so if you have two functions,
let's have modified person and
modified person age, for example.
And one of them is declared
with a lowercase m,
where this one is declared
with a capital M.
The capital M would be exported through
other packages where the lowercase m
will not be, it will only be
within the scope of the package.